Caterina Martin
CART 315 AA 
Vadim Nickel
17/09/2026

Journal #1: Breaking Game Boundaries By Design

Chapter two of Pippin Barr’s The Stuff Games Are Made Of  describes the notion of reimagining play through the forceful changing of a game’s fundamentals.
He uses examples from his many versions of Pong he himself created in order to put forth this idea, which includes either removing or adding trivial aspects of its gameplay. 

This concept of reimagining a game doesn’t seem to be anything new in theory. The way players flock to new releases of the same popular franchises because they are hoping 
for new mechanics and gimmicks in a game they’ve dumped hours into is just standard by all means. However, when a developer puts a new spin on 
a beloved game everyone is familiar with, it somehow feels unique and refreshing.
This reminded me of two examples of recently released games that have been popularized due to this factor, Meccha Cameleon and How to Fish, both brought to life by indie creators.

The former is a take on the simple hide and seek. The gimmick of this game however, is being able to open a color palette to use as your main method of disguise to the 
seeker by coloring yourself into the backdrop of choice within the given area. In practice, this isn’t a new game by any means, but the developers simply asked themselves;
“what if players had more control over how they were able to hide?”, and it has now become one of the most popular co-op games. 

The latter is once again, a simple take on a game of fishing. This time however, the developers decided to answer the question of “what can one add to a fishing game to 
make it more entertaining?” with “guns!” Along with the different weapons the player can purchase to use for game progression and its humorous character designs, it was 
able to capture the eyes of millions, becoming extremely successful essentially overnight. 

Using examples such as these, it is clear that games are meant to be fundamentally broken to be rebuilt into something new, or as Barr puts it, games are never truly 
“finished” by nature, due to the never ending stream of reimagined content in gaming.
